The Convener, Coalition in Defence of Nigerian Democracy and Constitution, Dare Ariyo-Atoye, on Sunday, berated the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, over his comparison of the End SARS and Canadian truckers’ protest. Ariyo-Atoye described the minister as “an unproductive idle public official who is always looking for cheap opportunities to launch tirade against those demanding accountability from the government”. The PUNCH had earlier that Mohammed during a press briefing on Sunday slammed the Canadian government and social media giant, Twitter, over the truckers’ protest against COVID-19 restrictions in Canada. Likening the #EndSARS protest to the truckers’ protest in Canada, Mohammed accused Twitter and the West of double standards in the way they perceive the violent protesters in their region and those in Nigeria. The minister had said, “The Canadian protesters, who have blockaded roads and resorted to inconveniencing others, have been branded as terrorists or insurrectionists and subjected to a number of clampdowns by government and private organisations.” He continued, “Recall, gentlemen, that during the EndSARS protest, which culminated in the blockage of public roads and massive destruction of government and private property, Canada was one of the countries that spoke out in support of the protesters. “Recall also that Twitter actively supported the EndSars protesters and even helped them to raise fund while GoFundMe was used to raise funds for the protests.” According to Mohammed, these are the same entities “that are now rushing to distance themselves from the protesters in Canada and even denying them the use of their platforms”. But Ariyo-Atoye said, “Minister Lai Mohammed is an unproductive idle public official who is always looking for every cheap opportunity to lunch tirade against those demanding accountability and protection of the civic space from the government. “Minister Lai Mohammed’s comparison of the #EndSARS protests, which was against a well-documented history of Police killings and brutality, with the truckers protest against COVID-19 restrictions in Canada, is unconscionable and thoughtless. “Our Minister of information has become an embarrassment to Nigeria and the government; the only good thing that can happen to him now is to resign to the private hands of his family voluntarily. “The desperation of Minister Lai Mohammed to gaslight the truth at old age is sickening and embarrassing because the two incidents in Nigeria and Canada are unrelated, and no one has asked the government of Canada not to use Police to kill their citizens as it frequently happens in Nigeria. “The government of Canada did not use agents and fronts to pay hoodlums to attack peaceful protestors as the government of Lai Mohammed did, and who will later turn around to loot and destroy.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com