The Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has appointed the Rector of the Lagos State Polytechnic, Ikorodu, Dr Oluremi Olaleye, as the Acting Vice-Chancellor of the newly established Lagos State University of Science and Technology. Olaleye announced his appointment while addressing members of staff at a town hall meeting held on Friday at the Ikorodu Campus of the institution. LASPOTECH was transmuted to LASUSTECH following its accreditation by the National Universities Commission on February 2, 2022. Olaleye expressed his profound gratitude to Sanwo-Olu for approving his appointment as the acting VC of LASPOTECH. He also thanked the Special Adviser on Education, Tokunbo Wahab and the Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa, for their efforts towards the successful transmutation of the institution. He told members of staff that Gov. Sanwo-Olu had assured that no staff would lose his or her job due to the transmutation and urged them to be more dutiful as the university status required more efficiency and proficiency in service delivery. “Lagos State Government knows that staff have families and for their needs to be met, nobody will be sacked. “What is demanded of all staff of this institution is to key into this transmutation process and support the state government, governing council and management. “This institution will not be a conventional but a specialised university of science and technology. “Not until the last student graduate, LASPOTECH still exists, the students currently in school will graduate with OND/HND,” he said. Olaleye also announced the reinstatement of four sacked non-academic staff which resulted in a seven-month crisis that disrupted academic programmes of the institution. The acting VC disclosed that LASUSTECH had been included in the ongoing UTME being conducted by JAMB for this year. “Currently, we have about 60 PhD holders in this institution, the governor assured us that nobody will lose his or her job,” he said. He said that staff had started receiving its arrears as promised by the state government and also approved payment of the one-month outstanding salary owed it since 2013. LASPOTECH Ikorodu campus erupted into great jubilation on Friday as staff engaged in singing and dancing when the news of Olaleye’s appointment as acting VC and the reinstatement of the sacked staff filtered into the institution. (NAN)