The University of Ottawa has announced special scholarships for students from Nigeria and other African countries willing to study courses in engineering, sciences and social sciences faculties. The institution explained that the scholarships under the ‘Entrance and Excellence Scholarship for African Students Studying in English’ would provide incoming students with a four-year scholarship to cover the partial cost of their university’s tuition. This was contained in an update on the institution’s website titled,’Scholarships for African students studying in English’. The institution listed courses the gesture would cover to include Civil Engineering; Chemical Engineering under engineering faculty. While Social sciences courses include Sociology; Anthropology; International Development and Globalization; Conflict Studies; Public Administration Meanwhile, all programs except the Honours BSc in Biochemistry, BASc in Chemical Engineering; Honours BSc in Physics / BASc in Electrical Engineering; and Honours BSc in Ophthalmic Medical Technology in sciences faculty would benefit from the scholarship. The update read, “The University of Ottawa is proud of the diversity of its international student body. This renewable scholarship is offered to international students who are citizens of African countries, who are admitted in the Fall 2022 term (September start date) or later with an admission average of 80% or higher, who are studying in English, and who enroll in one of the specified undergraduate programs in the faculties of Engineering, Science, or Social Sciences. “This significant financial contribution to their education reduces their tuition fees by $17,500 to $25,000 for the excellence scholarships and by $12,000 to $20,000 for the entrance scholarships, depending on the program annually. “All students who are eligible for this scholarship will automatically receive it upon enrolment. It will be applied directly to their tuition fees. “The Entrance scholarship cannot be combined with the Excellence Scholarship for African Students Studying in English.”