The United States Consulate Mission, Lagos office, Nigeria, on Thursday, donated e-library resources to Chrisland University, Abeokuta, Ogun State. The consulate said the donation was part of its core mandate in promoting educational opportunities for Nigerian students and scholars. The Deputy Public Affairs Officer, United States Consulate-General, Jennifer Foltz, made the donation on behalf of the consulate at the school premises. Foltz, who led the US Consulate General’s visitation team to the University, urged Nigerian students as well as other researchers in the country to take advantage of the plethora of American educational opportunities to better their careers while in school. She gave the advice during an interactive session with the stundents and lecturers of the University. She said, “Our office at the US Consulate Mission in Lagos is responsible for promoting educational opportunities for students and scholars. “As we travel across Southern Nigeria, we try to know different universities; we try to get to know the leadership, the faculties, the staff, the students and define what areas of specialities they have, what areas of research, so that we can look for ways to collaborate. “So, we are here today at the Chrisland University, Abeokuta, to learn more about the university and see which areas we can forge our partnership”. She disclosed that the government of the United States of America (USA) currently has about seven US full-scholarship programmes for students at various universities in Nigeria where research and teachings among other activities are being carried out. Earlier in her remarks, Vice Chancellor of the University, Prof. Peace Babalola, expressed optimism that her institution will use the opportunity of the visit to start a warm relationship on capacity-building support through knowledge sharing, exchange programmes among others. Babalola, however, disclosed that the university was almost through with the plan to establish a world-class Chrisland Institute for Security, Development, and Diplomacy. He said, “We expect this Institute to provide knowledge in a wide number of areas, including curbing violent extremism, anti-terrorism, humanitarian affairs, etc., in order to foster development. We believe the United States can assist us materially towards the realisation of the CISDD”. “We sincerely desire avenues for continuous interaction between our students and their US counterparts. Your guidance on how to set about fruitful arrangements in this regard would be much appreciated.”